---
layout: post
title: Ethics Essay for CPRE 394
status: done
type: post
published: true
comments: true
date: '21/4/24 17:00 '
---


	Ethics is an incredibly important aspect of cyber security, particularly in offensive security research due to the incredible amount of trust required to do the job. This is complicated by the less the transparent and in some cases lawful origins of security research from hacker collectives and government intelligence agencies. In a world where so much can and has happened, having a clear code of ethics is vital to fall back on to insure that practitioners do not sleep walk into unethical conduct. 
	An ethical code is a highly personal choice, particularly now as there is no widely recognized professional organization focused on cyber security and in particular the offensive aspects of it. My personal code’s foundation is derived from John Stuart Mill’s Utilitarian ideas. The idea of making the world a better place seems to be the best north star to follow. From this foundation, I have built up a collection of rights that seem foundational to leading a good and fulfilling life such as freedom of speech, privacy, ect that I use as heuristics for making ethical choices.
	Throughout my time at ISU, I have developed and used this code to analyze a large range of ethical challenges that have sprouted up in the past. This ranged from the relatively non technical fiasco of ford deciding to not recall the pinto to problems concerning the increasing amounts of surveillance that the average person is subjected to in order to live a modern life. While issues like the pinto one created little disagreement between individuals, more privacy focused ones such as the case where police used amazon echo’s recordings tended to create more disagreement primarily stemming from a different value that people place on privacy and their understanding of how encryption technology works. In particular those who valued privacy tended to be opposed to default data collection, with a decent number of others taking the “nothing to hide” approach and not feeling data collection as a harm. 
	Finally, no paper on ethics would be complete without relating something back to Aristotle’s Nicomachean, which in this case will be using the heavily abridged overview given to us by the CPR E 394 class1. It seems that the most applicable virtues would involve responsibility, honesty and integrity. These seem to apply most because it is our responsibility as security professionals to insure that the technology that we work on respects the rights of those that use it and better the world. It is a failure of integrity to allow what seems write on the surface be used to degrade the rights of individuals and it requires honesty with yourself in order to recognize this.

